                                 Sr. No. 1111

                         B.C.A. – Sem. I
BCA – 112 : INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTERS AND 
            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                           (K / 24)

Time Allowed — 3 Hours                    [Maximum Marks — 75]

Note:- Attempt Four questions from section B, C, D and E
       by selecting One question from each section and
       from section A attempt any Six questions.

                           Section - A
1. a) What is the use of RAM?
   b) Write a note on Virus.
   c) What is the need of Computer? How to configure 
      an Internet on it?
   d) What is the difference between OMR and OCR?
   e) What is the role of cut, copy and paste in word 
      processing?
   f) Is there any role of Software in the computer?
   g) Write the steps to install Libra office.
   h) Write the limitations of Optical Storage devices.
                       (6×2.5=15)

                           Section - B
2. Explain the various parts of computers with its 
   functional diagram.                                           (15)

3. Name any five input devices and explain any two out of 
   these with its diagram.                                       (15)

                           Section - C
4. Explain the working of Printer and Plotter with its 
   diagram.                                                      (15)

5. What is the use of Internet? How is it different from 
   Intranet and Extranet? Explain the working of Internet 
   along with its any three applications.                       (2,3,10)

                           Section - D
6. What is the difference between Primary and Secondary 
   Memory? Explain the various types of primary 
   memories.                                                     (4,11)

7. How the Open Source Presentation Software is different 
   from Microsoft PowerPoint? What are the limitations of 
   open source software? Explain the procedure to prepare 
   a presentation, insert and delete slides from it, insert 
   audio and video and saving of presentation.                  (3,3,9)

                           Section - E
8. What is the use of Google Docs? How it is different 
   from Microsoft Word Documents? Explain the complete 
   procedure to use the Google Docs.                            (2,4,9)

9. Explain the followings:
   a) Any seven functions of spread sheet with some 
      example                                                   (7)
   b) Insert graph and formulas in spread sheet.               (8)

                             *****